Custom Fonts & Skins - Rewording (#76)
DS-Homebrew/wiki: pages/_en-US/twilightmenu/custom-dsi-3ds-skins.md

description: How to make custom DSi and 3DS skins for TWiLight Menu++
---

Making skins for TWiLight Menu++ requires an image editor capable of exporting `.png` files, 16 <abbr title="Bits Per Pixel">BPP</abbr> `.bmp`/`.png` files, and 4 BPP `.bmp` files. Ideally, it should also be able to manually rearrange image palettes.

> [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org) is recommended and will be used for this guide, but any editor with these capabilities should work. For paletted images, GIMP has a toggleable Colormap Dialog window. Enable it via `Windows` -> `Dockable Dialogs` -> `Colormap`

Reviewer: Oops missed a period on this one.
```suggestion
[GIMP](https://www.gimp.org) is recommended and will be used for this guide, but any editor with these capabilities should work. For paletted images, GIMP has a toggleable Colormap Dialog window. Enable it via `Windows` -> `Dockable Dialogs` -> `Colormap`.
```

description: How to make custom DSi and 3DS skins for TWiLight Menu++
---

Making skins for TWiLight Menu++ requires an image editor capable of exporting `.png` files, 16 <abbr title="Bits Per Pixel">BPP</abbr> `.bmp`/`.png` files, and 4 BPP `.bmp` files. Ideally, it should also be able to manually rearrange image palettes.

> - [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org) is recommended and will be used for this guide, but any editor with these capabilities should work.
> - For paletted images, GIMP has a toggleable Colormap Dialog window. Enable it via `Windows` -> `Dockable Dialogs` -> `Colormap`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GIMP](https://www.gimp.org) is recommended and will be used for this guide, but any editor with these capabilities should work. For paletted images, GIMP has a toggleable Colormap Dialog window. Enable it via `Windows` -> `Dockable Dialogs` -> `Colormap`
```
pointless bullets imo, reads better as a paragraph.

I'm kinda against this change as a whole, GIMP is the best editor for this so I think the guide should assume you're using it, for palette images at least.

## Part 1: Download the examples
The first thing you should do is download the [example skins](/assets/files/skin-examples.zip). These can be used as a base for your skin and are already in the correct format, so if you have issues later on, you can compare with these.

## Part 2: Editing images

> With the image editor described above, you are now ready to edit any image based from a TWiLight Menu++ skin, as long as the format remains the same from the source specification. They are categorized by folders, each of them being located on the skin root folder.

Reviewer: This section is honestly kinda useless with the changes you made above. I'd either remove this section entirely or restore it more or less to how it was. Could mention that this section is only for GIMP, which is recommended but not strictly required.

| batterylow         | Used when in DS mode                                                        |

### Paletted textures (`grf` folder)
These must be 4 BPP (16 color) BMP files.

Editing these in GIMP requires the image to be set in "RGB" mode, toggleable via the setting in `Image` -> `Mode` -> `RGB`. When done, select `Image` -> `Mode` -> `Indexed...` to convert back to paletted.

Indexed Images requires an exact count of 16 colors, with the first of which (#0) being transparent (#FF00FF).
- To set the transparent color as the first entry in the colormap, right click the colormap and select `Rearrange Colormap...`. Then, simply move the transparent color to the slot and select `OK`

> - If there are over 16 colors, set `Maximum number of colors` to 16

Reviewer: Looking it over again you should probably mention that this is when converting to Indexed mode, the others of these bullets are talking about the colormap dialog. Maybe just add this to line 58 above since there's no reason not to set the max colors to 16.

- If there are fewer than 16 colors, press the `+` button at the bottom of the colormap dialog as many times as needed

**Note:** Some images in the DSi theme have their palettes overridden based on the user's profile color. If editing the colors of these ensure that the `UserPalette` option for it in the `theme.ini` is set to `0`.

- When switching to indexed, ensure that `Generate optimum palette` is checked

> - When exporting, it's recommended to check the `Do not write color space information` box under the `Compatibility Options` dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When exporting, it's recommended to check the `Do not write color space information` box under the `Compatibility Options` dropdown
```

| batterylow         | Used when in DS mode                                                        |

### Paletted textures (`grf` folder)
These must be 4 BPP (16 color) BMP files.

> Editing these in GIMP requires the image to be set in "RGB" mode, toggleable via the setting in `Image` -> `Mode` -> `RGB`.
> - When done, select `Image` -> `Mode` -> `Indexed...` to convert back to paletted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Editing these in GIMP requires the image to be set in "RGB" mode, toggleable via the setting in `Image` -> `Mode` -> `RGB`. When done, select `Image` -> `Mode` -> `Indexed...` to convert back to paletted.
```
Another pointless bullet

Indexed Images requires an exact count of 16 colors, with the first of which (#0) being transparent (#FF00FF).

> - To set the transparent color as the first entry in the colormap, right click the colormap and select `Rearrange Colormap...`. Then, simply move the transparent color to the slot and select `OK`.
> - If there are over 16 colors, set `Maximum number of colors` to 16.
> - If there are fewer than 16 colors, press the `+` button at the bottom of the colormap dialog as many times as needed.

Reviewer: Bullets shouldn't end in periods
```suggestion
- To set the transparent color as the first entry in the colormap, right click the colormap and select `Rearrange Colormap...`. Then, simply move the transparent color to the slot and select `OK`
- If there are over 16 colors, set `Maximum number of colors` to 16
- If there are fewer than 16 colors, press the `+` button at the bottom of the colormap dialog as many times as needed
```

You may add specific override options to `theme.ini` for use in Macro Mode. To do this, add `[MACRO]` to a blank line at the bottom of the configuration file, then add any specified configurations below it.

## Custom background music and sound effects

> Skins can [set an override](custom-dsi-3ds-sfx) to custom music and sound effects for the Nintendo DSi & Nintendo 3DS themes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skins can [use custom music and sound effects](custom-dsi-3ds-sfx) for the Nintendo DSi & Nintendo 3DS themes.
```
I think this sounds a little better

## Custom fonts

> Custom fonts can be loaded from skins, whether globally or specific sections (`date_time.nftr`/`username.nftr`). Place them in `ui` -> `font`, according to the selection specified in the "[Custom Fonts](custom-fonts)" page.

Reviewer: I prefer the old version of this paragraph. Also they don't go in a `ui` folder, just `font` in the skin folder.

Author: Huh, I forgot where I read that you should use the ui folder. I'll do this as a manual commit.
